(Q)EAA issuance and data model (#70)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-issuance.rst

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

.. _pid_eaa_issuance.rst:

PID/(Q)EAA Issuance
+++++++++++++++++++

> This section describes the issuance flow for the PID and (Q)EAAs that require a high security implementation profile. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the PID and (Q)EAAs issuance flow with an high level of security. 
```

        - OpenID4VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release PID credentials.
        - National eID Relying Party (OpenID Connect or SAML2): It represents the component to authenticate the End-User with the national Digital Identity Providers.
    - National IdP: It represents preexisting identity systems based on SAML2 or OpenID Connect, already in production in each Member State (for Italy SPID and CIE id authentication schemed notified eIDAS with *LoA* **High**, see `SPID/CIE OpenID Connect Specifications <https://italia.github.io/spid-cie-oidc-docs/en/>`_).

>     - *(Q)EAA Issuer*: It represents the issuer of (Q)EAAs. It is composed of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - *(Q)EAA Issuer*: It represents the Issuer of (Q)EAAs. It is composed of:
```

      - OpenID4VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release (Q)EAAs.

>       - Relying Party: It represents the component to authenticate the End-User with the PID. The (Q)EAA Issuer then acts as a verifier and sends a presentation request to the Wallet Instance according to [`OpenID4VP`_]. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to starting a transaction with the (Q)EAA Issuer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Relying Party: It represents the component to authenticate the User with the PID. The (Q)EAA Issuer acts as a verifier and it sends a presentation request to the Wallet Instance according to [`OpenID4VP`_]. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to starting a transaction with the (Q)EAA Issuer.
```

    

High-Level PID flow
-------------------
  
The :numref:`fig_High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-PID-Issuance` shows a general architecture and highlights the main operations involved in the issuance of a PID.

.. _fig_High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-PID-Issuance:
.. figure:: ../../images/High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-PID-Issuance.svg
    :figwidth: 100%
    :align: center

    PID Issuance - General architecture and high level flow

> In the following the main operations are detailed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below a detailed description for each step represented in the previous picture:
```

    0. **Wallet Instance Setup**: the first time the Wallet Instance is started a preliminary setup phase MUST be carried out. It consists of the release of a verifiable proof issued by the Attestation Service provided by the Wallet Provider that asserts the genuineness, the authenticity and the compliance with a trust framework of the Wallet Instance. The verifiable proof binds a public key corresponding to a local private key generated by the Wallet Instance. 
    1. **Obtaining the trusted PID Provider**: the Wallet Instance queries the Trust Anchor to fetch the trusted PID Provider. 
    2. **Obtaining of PID Provider metadata**: the Wallet Instance establishes the trust to the PID Provider according to the Trust Model, obtaining the Metadata that discloses the formats of the PID, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.

>     3. **PID request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance, the public key is used by PID Provider for the key binding of the PID. The PID Provider checks the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. **PID request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance, the public key is used by PID Provider for the key binding of the PID. The PID Provider checks the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider.
```

    4. **End-user authentication**: the PID Provider authenticates the End-User with LoA High, acting as an IAM Proxy to the National eID system. 

>     5. **PID issuance**: once the User authentication with LoA High happens, the User gives their consent, and the PID Provider releases a PID bound to the key material held by the requesting Wallet instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. **PID issuance**: once the User authentication with LoA High happens, the User gives their consent, and the PID Provider releases a PID bound to the key material held by the requesting Wallet Instance.
```

The Wallet Instance Setup phase is described in Section [...]. In the following Section the steps from 1 to 5 are further expanded into more technical detailed steps. 

High-Level (Q)EAA flow
----------------------

> The :numref:`fig_High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-QEAA-Issuance` shows a general architecture and highlights the main operations involved in the issuance of a (Q)EAA, under the main following assumptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :numref:`fig_High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-QEAA-Issuance` shows a general architecture and highlights the main operations involved in the issuance of a (Q)EAA, following the assumptions listed below:
```

>   - the User has a valid PID stored in its own Wallet Instance;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - the User has a valid PID stored in their own Wallet Instance;
```

  - the (Q)EAA requires a high security implementation profile.

.. _fig_High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-QEAA-Issuance:
.. figure:: ../../images/High-Level-Flow-ITWallet-QEAA-Issuance.svg
    :figwidth: 70%
    :align: center

    (Q)EAA Issuance - General architecture and high level flow

> In the following the main operations are detailed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the description of the most relevant operations involved in the (Q)EAA issuance:
```

    1. **Obtaining the trusted (Q)EAA Issuer**: the Wallet Instance queries the Trust Anchor to fetch the trusted (Q)EAA Issuer. 
    2. **Obtaining of (Q)EAA Issuer metadata**: the Wallet Instance establishes the trust to the (Q)EAA Issuer according to the Trust Model, obtaining the Metadata that discloses the formats of the (Q)EAA, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.

>     3. **(Q)EAA request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a (Q)EAA to the (Q)EAA Issuer. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance, the public key is used by (Q)EAA Issuer for the key binding of the (Q)EAA. The (Q)EAA Issuer checks the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. **(Q)EAA request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a (Q)EAA to the (Q)EAA Issuer. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance, the public key is used by (Q)EAA Issuer for the key binding of the (Q)EAA. The (Q)EAA Issuer checks the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider.
```

>     4. **End-user authentication**: the (Q)EAA Issuer authenticates the End-User with the PID owned by the User, acting as a verifier (Relying Party). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. **End-user authentication**: the (Q)EAA Issuer authenticates the User with the PID owned by the User, acting as a verifier (Relying Party). 
```

>     4. **End-user authentication**: the (Q)EAA Issuer authenticates the User with the PID owned by the User, acting as a verifier (Relying Party). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. **End-user authentication**: the (Q)EAA Issuer, acting as a verifier (Relying Party), authenticates the User with the PID. 
```

>     5. **(Q)EAA issuance**: once the User authentication with a valid PID happens, the User gives their consent, and the (Q)EAA Issuer releases a (Q)EAA bound to the key material held by the requesting Wallet Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. **(Q)EAA issuance**: once the User has been authenticated with a valid PID, the User gives their consent, then the (Q)EAA Issuer releases a (Q)EAA bound to the key material held by the requesting Wallet Instance.
```

    :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/svg/dPJVRnf74CVVzwyOEP5g9AoyMseK7DCOrQgewoYFf-LkW96FtUlkB8J-zPtH7iTYd8h6yeDzy_lpdTbFaMtWj6cDJUnTsYmm6DF9DwgfiuxXwcl4S0KsGZ9cuR_d3xz4Y1lnwjRUuHMyUwJLck_QXAUnTy7lXd1xQljcsnOPPavQS3Mg3-mCkWQaYddJTnxybfe-t-ALptns_-7wpz5qCe5PZAdt8YC_ExZv2EaM_88jETZx5E3eRXBSY7rt2tkCnWJd6S5lCS0Etdrxc3rFJHzeeQN8u9Vm759aRE2ig0wW6L2gtdoKchLtImeRu3L2n1Ph9kyqnNceITA7jE5VJhiOam2UVNbu_l8qdVvXNe63UetrIvG2bhNAUMAW28fAgwh3RoWChVO1rZKzbGZ44JR8jh5iop50uO1C4j2ofF_zyrIcQX2aELeIXjw7n6S-UO8d_3jXPBWE63ll8bQyxt0CTKlekA9c31fUrMiTnAtmzV-LTB7suXPofY7KneX1-oup5fz_VP_P7D1Cc2NSgkdz24gcD5wSC3rZTaRrT0N_Y-a5oIAjdEKKKCBBxCU6ipGgoTQsr13leT34K5xPWNW63TSziIe56WD-xoXWhCYDyX7e5TXRc2J16-YVN6UGgz2dI3CooMeaqFyEDBPbw46GW519JaL8XmFJDmMif9T4LEVyE-ArBhEIq3EAOZiom3QYMdywCyxk9t_1ev_0WpnUFoZYcWDheN06OC2k-pi6LGu7NhiB_OiBMw7J9KAud_ivlE3-XxOkUB-4fGzlN3kmVq47qdldIQOfplDPBODmYg5CLmgv2jRnuSnySxZHmybVV9Aw4Wq5h0yxGNcWt4l9nDOrnbYnVXxd6NBEOeybV-Mygt7uepeQtoIv5DjQKIeiVS8QtGFRdhzhcO7yTZv6Z54LkyvLiaY5_oKw5CKABGOfFX-jvtgKB7GpJrKQ8gi6b-GeSvOcDfR7sMjqSWtzKtVt-7Lgdd15aVKcsbQVdgBDcu2jPMp0aClPb84EbsNFr_CXuDRNsLQyIOEmnMI5kdrtHRMBjIp83c-XCj7pIJ6_hOLxP1-mLFgJz9WsxRy0

    PID/(Q)EAA Issuance - Detailed flow

> **Steps 1-4 (Discovery):** The User has selected a PID/(Q)EAA Issuer, and the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata for the selected PID/(Q)EAA Issuer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 1-4 (Discovery):** The User selects the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer, and the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata for the selected PID/(Q)EAA Issuer.
```

.. note::

>     **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is part of Federation and then it can consume its Metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is represented within the section `Entity Configuration Credential Issuer`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is part of Federation, obtaining then its protocol specific metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is represented within the section `Entity Configuration Credential Issuer`_.
```

>     **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is part of Federation, obtaining then its protocol specific metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is represented within the section `Entity Configuration Credential Issuer`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is part of the Federation, obtaining then its protocol specific metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer is represented within the section `Entity Configuration Credential Issuer`_.
```

> **Steps 5-6 (PAR Request):** The Wallet Instance creates a PKCE code verifier that sends in a *pushed authorization request*, using the request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer PAR endpoint. The Wallet Instance signs the request using its private key. A OAuth2 client authentication method MUST be involved, since in this flow the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication is based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the **client_assertion** parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify the types of the credentials when requesting authorization for the PID/(Q)EAA issuance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 5-6 (PAR Request):** The Wallet Instance creates a PKCE code verifier that sends in a *pushed authorization request*, using the request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer PAR endpoint. The Wallet Instance signs the request using its private key. An OAuth2 client authentication method is involved, since in this flow the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication is based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the **client_assertion** parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify the types of the credentials when requesting authorization for the PID/(Q)EAA issuance.
```

Author: done

.. note::

>    **User Authentication and Consent:** The PID Provider performs the User authentication based on the requirements of eIDAS LoA High by means of national notified eIDAS scheme and asks the User consent for the PID issuance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **User Authentication and Consent:** The PID Provider performs the User authentication based on the requirements of eIDAS LoA High by means of national notified eIDAS scheme and requires the User consent for the PID issuance. 
```

>    The (Q)EAA Issuer performs the User authentication requesting a valid PID to the Wallet Instance. The (Q)EAA Issuer MUST use [`OpenID4VP`_] to dynamically request presentation of the PID. From a protocol perspective, the (Q)EAA Issuer then acts as a verifier and sends a presentation request to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to starting a transaction with the (Q)EAA Issuer.

Reviewer: this suggests that a RP could authenticate the user in a traditional way and then offer an auth code to be used to a pre-authorized code flow

:-)

Author: I don't get your point. What we pointed out here is referred to Section 5.1.5 of [OIDC4VCI ](https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#section-5.1.5)

Author: @peppelinux can you elaborate on your comment?

>    The (Q)EAA Issuer performs the User authentication requesting a valid PID to the Wallet Instance. The (Q)EAA Issuer MUST use [`OpenID4VP`_] to dynamically request presentation of the PID. From a protocol perspective, the (Q)EAA Issuer then acts as a verifier and sends a presentation request to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to starting a transaction with the (Q)EAA Issuer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The (Q)EAA Issuer performs the User authentication requesting a valid PID to the Wallet Instance. The (Q)EAA Issuer MUST use [`OpenID4VP`_] to dynamically request the presentation of the PID. From a protocol perspective, the (Q)EAA Issuer then acts as a verifier and sends a presentation request to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to starting a transaction with the (Q)EAA Issuer.
```

    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Location: eudiw://start.wallet.example.org?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd&iss=https%3A%2F%2Fpid-provider.example.org

> **Steps 12-13 (DPoP Proof for Token Endpoint)**: The Wallet Instance creates a key for DPoP and a fresh DPoP proof for the token request to the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer. DPoP provides a way to bind the access token to a certain sender (Wallet Instance) `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, it mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen Access Tokens at the Credential Endpoint of PID/(Q)EAA Issuer as the attacker needs to present a valid DPoP proof.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 12-13 (DPoP Proof for Token Endpoint)**: The Wallet Instance creates a key for DPoP and a fresh DPoP proof for the token request to the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer. DPoP provides a way to bind the access token to a certain sender (Wallet Instance) `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. This mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen Access Tokens at the Credential Endpoint of PID/(Q)EAA Issuer as the attacker needs to present a valid DPoP proof.
```

    }

> **Steps 16-18 (DPoP Proof for Credential Endpoint):** The Wallet Instance creates a new key pair to which the new credential shall be bound. Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential issuance endpoint.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 16-18 (DPoP Proof for Credential Endpoint):** The Wallet Instance creates a new key pair to which the new credential SHALL be bound. Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential issuance endpoint.  
```

> **Steps 16-18 (DPoP Proof for Credential Endpoint):** The Wallet Instance creates a new key pair to which the new credential SHALL be bound. Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential issuance endpoint.  

Reviewer 2: How about using the same previously generated key for `DPoP` to bind to the new credential? Since both operations take place within seconds of each other, in my opinion, there is no need to generate a new key pair.

Reviewer: Yes, the evidence I have in mind is that we should not mandate which key should be used, it's up to the wallet solution, the issuer doesn't have the control of this and I would not put any constraints but just a normative SHOULD indicating a good practice to use different keys for different scopes

Author: In principle, using the same key breaks the key separation principle of using different keys for different purposes. However in this case, I don't see any security issues. I will change in SHOULD as suggested by @peppelinux .

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

> **Step 19 (Credential Request):** The Wallet Instance sends a PID/(Q)EAA issuance request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential endpoint. It contains the *access token*, the *DPoP proof*, the *credential type*, the *proof* (proof of possession of the key) and the *format*.

Reviewer 2: In fact, here there could be confusion between `DPoP proof `and `proof`. See previous tip

> **Steps 20-22 (Credential Response):** The PID/(Q)EAA Issuer checks the *DPoP proof* and whether the *access token* is valid and suitable for the requested PID/(Q)EAA. It also checks the proof of possession for the key material the new credential shall be bound to. If all checks succeed, the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer creates a new credential bound to the key material and sends it to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST perform the PID/(Q)EAA integrity and authenticity checks and if it is successful can proceed with secure storage of the credential. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 20-22 (Credential Response):** The PID/(Q)EAA Issuer checks the *DPoP proof* and whether the *access token* is valid and suitable for the requested PID/(Q)EAA. It also checks the proof of possession for the key material the new credential SHALL be bound to. If all checks succeed, the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer creates a new credential bound to the key material and sends it to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST perform the PID/(Q)EAA integrity and authenticity checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the credential. 
```

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **iss**
      - It MUST be set to the ``client_id``.
      - :rfc:`9126` and :rfc:`7519`.
    * - **aud**
      - It MUST be set to the identifier of the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer.
      - :rfc:`9126` and :rfc:`7519`.
    * - **exp**

>       - UNIX Timestamp with the expiry time of the JWT, coded as NumericDate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - UNIX Timestamp with the expiry time of the JWT.
```

      - :rfc:`9126` and :rfc:`7519`.
    * - **iat**

>       - UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance, coded as NumericDate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance.
```

      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
    * - **authorization_details**

>       - Array of JSON Object. Each JSON Object MUST include the following claims:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Array of JSON Objects. Each JSON Object MUST include the following claims:
```

Authorization Response
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The authentication response is returned by the PID/(Q)EAA authorization endpoint at the end of the authentication flow.

> If the authentication is successful the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer redirects the User by adding the following query parameters as required to the *redirect_uri*. The redirect URI MUST be an universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter is able to resolve its value and delegates the Wallet Instance for the processing.

Reviewer: if heavy using MUST with an OR :-)

it will be hold until ...

      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **code**
      - Unique *Authorization Code* that the Wallet Instance submits to the Token Endpoint.
      - [:rfc:`6749#section-4.1.2`], `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **state**

>       - The Wallet Instance MUST check the correspondence with the state value in the request object. It is defined as in the :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - The Wallet Instance MUST check the correspondence with the ``state`` parameter value in the request object. It is defined as in the :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`.
```

Token Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The request to the PID/(Q)EAA Token endpoint  MUST be an HTTP request with method POST, where its body message is encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format. The Wallet Instance sends the Token endpoint request with *private_key_jwt* authentication and a *DPoP proof* containing the mandatory parameters, defined in the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request to the PID/(Q)EAA Token endpoint MUST be an HTTP request with method POST, where its body message is encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format. The Wallet Instance sends the Token endpoint request with *private_key_jwt* authentication and a *DPoP proof* containing the mandatory parameters, defined in the table below.
```

> The Token endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP HTTP header. The Token endpoint MUST validate the DPoP proof based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of the DPoP specifications `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, this mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Token endpoint returns an error response, according to Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with ``invalid_dpop_proof`` as the value of the error parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Token endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP HTTP header. The Token endpoint MUST validate the DPoP proof according to Section 4.3 of the DPoP specifications `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, this mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Token endpoint returns an error response, according to Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with ``invalid_dpop_proof`` as the value of the error parameter. 
```

    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **iss** 
    - It MUST be an HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer. The Wallet Instance MUST verify that this value matches the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer where it has requested the credential.
    - [:rfc:`9068`], `[RFC7519, Section 4.1.1] <https://www.iana.org/go/rfc7519>`_.
  * - **sub** 
    - It identifies the principal that is the subject of the JWT. It MUST be set to the value of the ``sub`` field in the PID/(Q)EAA SD-JWT-VC. 
    - [:rfc:`9068`], [:rfc:`7519`] and [`OpenID.Core#SubjectIDTypes <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes>`_].
  * - **client_id** 

>     - MUST be set to the *jwk* value in the *cnf* parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It MUST be set to the *jwk* value in the *cnf* parameter, as taken in the Wallet Instance Attestation. 
```

  * - **jti** 
    - It MUST be a String in *uuid4* format. Unique Token ID identifier that the RP MAY use to prevent reuse by rejecting the Token ID if already processed.
    - [:rfc:`9068`], [:rfc:`7519`].
  * - **nonce** 
    - It MUST be a random string of at least 32 alphanumeric characters. The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a **c_nonce** provided by the PID Provider.

>     - [`OpenID.Core#AuthRequest <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AuthRequest>`_].

Reviewer 2: I'm lost. Where is the nonce now?

Author: We don't have nonce in [rfc9068](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9068), so the nonce parameter here is not compliant with RFC. Moreover, we actually don't need it because the token request is right after the auth req where we have PKCE.

Reviewer: yes, PKCE alone is enough

Reviewer 2: All right!

Credential Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> A Wallet Instance makes a PID/(Q)EAA Request to the PID/(Q)EAA Credential endpoint by sending the following mandatory parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the `application/json` media type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet Instance when requests the PID/(Q)EAA to the PID/(Q)EAA Credential endpoint, MUST use the following parameters in the entity-body of the HTTP POST request, using the `application/json` media type.
```

The Credential endpoint MUST accept and validate the *DPoP proof* sent in the DPoP field of the Header based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of [DPoP-draft16]. The *DPoP proof* in addition to the values that are defined in the Token Endpoint section MUST contain the following claim:

>   - **ath**: hash of the Access Token. The value MUST be the result of a base64url encoding (as defined in Section 2 of :rfc:`7515`) the SHA-256 hash of the ASCII encoding of the associated Access Token's value.

Reviewer: sometime AT is capitalized, somethime not. Please align accordingly

    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **credential_definition**

>     - JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST have at least the **type** sub claims which is a JSON array containing the type values the Wallet shall request in the subsequent Credential Request. It MUST be set in accordance to the type of the requested PID/(Q)EAA that is obtained from the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer metadata. For example, in the case of the PID, it MUST be set to ``PersonIdentificationData``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST have at least the **type** sub claims which is a JSON array containing the type values the Wallet SHALL request in the Credential Request. It MUST be set in accordance to the type of the requested PID/(Q)EAA that is obtained from the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer metadata. For example, in the case of the PID, it MUST be set to ``PersonIdentificationData``.
```

.. note::

>   If the **format** value is `mso_mdoc`, the credential request MUST contain the doctype claim which is a JSON string identifying the credential type according to `EIDAS-ARF`_ . See Appendix E.2. of `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the **format** value is `mso_mdoc`, the credential request MUST contain the ``doctype`` claim which is a JSON string identifying the credential type according to `EIDAS-ARF`_ . See Appendix E.2. of `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ for more details.
```

            "pushed_authorization_request_endpoint": "https://pid-provider.example.org/connect/par",
            "dpop_signing_alg_values_supported": ["RS256", "RS512", "ES256", "ES512"],
            "credential_endpoint": "https://pid-provider.example.org/credential",
            "credentials_supported": [
              {
                "format": "vc+sd-jwt",

>                 "id": "eu.eudiw.pid.it",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "id": "eudiw.pid.it",
```

I was thinking about that :-)
